TODO.md, before:

# Roadmap

This document lists the planned and finished changes in this rewrite towards [Nvim-treesitter 1.0](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/4767).

## TODO

- [ ] **`locals.lua`:** move to `nvim-treesitter-refactor`?
- [ ] **`parsers.lua`:** include revision? (<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64260981>)
- [ ] **update-lockfile:** allow specifying version in addition to commit hash (for Tier 1)
- [ ] **update-lockfile:** one commit per parser/tier?
- [ ] **tests:** fix, update, extend (cover all Tier 1 languages)
- [ ] **documentation:** consolidate, autogenerate?
- [ ] **documentation:** migration guide
- [ ] **textobjects:** include simple(!) function, queries? (check Helix)
- [ ] **downstream:** adapt to breaking changes (`nvim-treesitter-refactor`)

## DONE

- [X] remove module framework
- [X] remove extra utilities
- [X] refactor `indent.lua` into standalone
- [X] refactor `locals.lua` into standalone
- [X] refactor commands, predicates, filetypes registration to plugin/
- [X] support installing tiers of parsers
- [X] install parsers to standard directory by default
- [X] remove bundled queries from runtimepath; copy on parser install
- [X] general refactor and cleanup
- [X] rewrite installation using async module (drop support for sync; use callback instead)
- [X] switch to upstream injection format
- [X] remove locals from highlighting (cf. https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/3944#issuecomment-1458782497)

Commit message:

feat!: track parser revision in Lua
Problem: Tracking parser revision in lockfile and allowing override
through the parsers module complicates the code. In addition, only
revision changes are handled robustly, not changes to other installation
info.

Solution: Track parser revision in the parsers module directly. Reload
parser table on every install or update call. Support modifying parser
table in a `User TSUpdate` autocommand.

TODO.md, after:

# Roadmap

This document lists the planned and finished changes in this rewrite towards [Nvim-treesitter 1.0](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/4767).

## TODO

- [ ] **`parsers.lua`:** include revision (serialization at home: `vim.inspect`)
  - rename `parsers` to `languages`
  - rename `install_info` to `parser`

- [ ] **`parsers.lua`:** allow specifying version in addition to commit hash (for Tier 1)
- [ ] **update-lockfile:** one commit per parser/tier?
- [ ] **tests:** fix, update, extend (cover all Tier 1 languages)
- [ ] **documentation:** consolidate, autogenerate?
- [ ] **documentation:** migration guide
- [ ] **`locals.lua`:** move to `nvim-treesitter-refactor`?
- [ ] **textobjects:** include simple(!) function, queries? (check Helix)
- [ ] **downstream:** adapt to breaking changes (`nvim-treesitter-refactor`)

## DONE

- [X] remove module framework
- [X] remove extra utilities
- [X] refactor `indent.lua` into standalone
- [X] refactor `locals.lua` into standalone
- [X] refactor commands, predicates, filetypes registration to plugin/
- [X] support installing tiers of parsers
- [X] install parsers to standard directory by default
- [X] remove bundled queries from runtimepath; copy on parser install
- [X] general refactor and cleanup
- [X] rewrite installation using async module (drop support for sync; use callback instead)
- [X] switch to upstream injection format
- [X] remove locals from highlighting (cf. https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter/issues/3944#issuecomment-1458782497)
